[Music]
everybody welcome to another episode of
conversations with tom i am here with
journalist and author of the comfort
crisis michael easter michael welcome to
the show thanks for having me man dude
i'm super excited about this this is an
idea that i've really
become obsessed with this notion that
and i'm gonna use words that you may not
actually find comfortable and so push
back if ever i go somewhere that you're
like i actually don't see it that way
all right that people are getting super
soft
and that there are consequences to that
and a lot of sort of the
what i'll call the mania of the culture
wars is really about the fact that
people aren't chased by a lion anymore
and
if you could just encapsulate for people
what the comfort crisis is
and then we can dive into why i find it
so interesting yeah i think you're on to
something i don't use that language in
the book but it's yeah same thing we're
on the same page here so in the comfort
crisis i basically investigate how
as the world has become become more and
more comfortable in a variety of ways so
think of your average day it's like
air conditioned your food is there you
don't have to chase down your food you
don't have to put any physical effort
into your days
we've lost a lot of the things that make
us healthy not only physically but also
mentally because to your point with the
culture wars it's like if your problem
is that you got stuck in traffic or
someone challenged your idea
instead of you got chased by a lion
that's that can do some stuff to your
brain that seems to um we seem to get a
little bit out of whack so i look at
that and to
basically investigate that i spent 30
some odd days in the arctic and traveled
the globe met with all these different
researchers kind of looking at this idea
and how it's affecting people today
the book is
very interesting and what you went
through is really daunting i have no
desire to do that's actually not true i
have a
there is some part of my brain that's
like come on wuss like you really should
do something that hardcore but i really
don't want to do it so it's this bizarre
sort of conflict in my brain about
recognizing that this would probably be
good not only that it would be good but
that on the other side of it i would be
so glad i did it yes
so before we dive into like rights of
passage is really what i want to talk
about like i'm [__] fascinated by
that yeah but before we get to that like
give people some of the
why is it so hard like when you say oh
we spent the time in the arctic it
doesn't sound scary until you read the
book and then you're like [__] me that
does not sound not only does it not
sound fun it doesn't sound safe
there were moments of
apparel okay so first of all i'll tell
you i'll kind of walk people through
what it was like from the beginning
so to get to where we went i had to take
five planes so you go from you know
jumbo jet to slightly smaller jets i go
from vegas to seattle to anchorage from
anchorage and kind of a smaller jet up
to this town called kotzebue kotzebue is
like a 3 000 person little hamlet on the
ocean above the arctic circle
uh
from there we get in a four-seater plane
this takes us 100 miles out onto the
tundra right and this plane what time of
year is this this is september so that's
we're time to be hunting season which
we'll get into
and uh
this four-seater plane is i mean it's
just this rickety old thing it's this
old cessna right and the pilot is like
20 something years old and just you know
you can tell he just you know doesn't
he's on his phone texting as he's flying
it's just
horrifying uh they drop us out off out
on the tundra another plane that's even
smaller comes and gets us right has to
take us individually and ferry us out to
a place even further out in the middle
of nowhere this is a plane that only
seats two people
until then we're left there right we are
out in the middle
literal middle of nowhere um and even in
september i mean the temperatures are
consistently below freezing
carried everything we needed to survive
on our backs so that you know food
shelter we're like hiking all day our
packs are 80 some odd pounds uh we're up
there hunting you know
did you know what you were getting into
like when you signed up for this did you
know i am doing this because it is hard
i thought that there was something there
that i could learn from
i didn't know what that was were you
doing this as a journalist at the time
because i think one thing for context
for people that will be pretty important
to understand as you go into all the
crazy [__] that you guys do
um
and i don't know what words you used to
describe yourself but certainly at a
problem with alcohol yes do you consider
yourself a recovering alcoholic i do
yeah okay so recovering alcoholic is
this
are you wearing a journalism hat at this
point or a recovering alcoholic hat
i think i'm always wearing both
all the time right i mean
so part of recovering from
alcohol for me at least is realizing
that
it's it's doing push-ups in the parking
lot right like i always have to be
conscious of that what does that mean it
means it's uh
it's always it's always in me right that
you have the desire to drink yeah and
obviously it fades a lot over time but
push-ups in the parking lot are a
distraction or is that a metaphor
metaphor for what the disease is doing
it's always there right it's sort of
like it's not like it just fades away
it's ready to come get me you know
um and then in terms of the journalism
hat i think
as a career journalist
i'm always observing thinking looking
for stories so i would say that i am
wearing both but specifically i went up
there
with the idea that there's probably a
story up there and you know i knew it
was going to be physically hard
but i also
thought that
i'm probably going to learn some pretty
deep things about myself as well
and maybe as a journalist i can take
what i learned and
tell other people about that
the idea of learning something about
yourself is really interesting what have
you thought at all about like how things
are hidden from us
like how in our own selves there are
things that we don't see and understand
oh totally i mean i think a big thing
for me was
you know when you get sober you have to
ask yourself some hard questions about
why did you drink the way you drank you
know and i think that
i think that for me i think part of it
is genetic you look at my family line
and you know the men in my family
we got
jail and prison records a mile long you
know and it's just always been that way
so i think that there is something
genetic
but i also think that
you know that gene doesn't necessarily
bloom unless you give it enough alcohol
so you know having to ask those uh
ask those hard questions and i think
that uh
going through the process of getting
sober it's sort of like compared to like
i'm peeling an onion about yourself it's
like more will be revealed you know but
you have to kind of
go out and do different things that
challenge you that challenge your
worldview
in a lot of different ways because you
by never putting yourself in a position
where
you are uncomfortable whether that is
physically
or mentally or with you know
what you think to be true
you're not gonna you're not gonna learn
anything about yourself right and i
think that
in today's age
it's a lot easier to never be forced out
of
your comfort zone now
physically that's very obvious
right i mean you could take a thousand
steps a day
and live today right like which
i know what you mean when you say that
but we've gotten so sort of comfortable
that people won't even understand that
you mean that as a little
yeah like that won't register as like oh
yeah that's an astonishingly small
amount of steps yeah so our ancestors i
think the average person um
takes about 4 000 steps a day
in modern society or modern society so
you look at how our ancestors lived they
exercised they had to do 14 times more
physical activity than us just to live
pre-covered yeah pre-coping now we're
probably even less um so obviously
there's the physical element right
um but also
i think psychologically increasing with
what you talked about with the culture
wars
so if you look at
young people today especially so people
born after 1990
you see this rise in helicopter
parenting because there was these like
media stories about kidnappings uh
really high profile stuff now
kidnappings weren't even increasing as a
whole but there was just high profile
ones right so all of a sudden parents
are like i can't let my kids go outside
into the woods or at a park
but by doing that and having that time
alone
where you sort of challenge yourself as
a kid right i mean think about your own
experience at the playground or in the
woods like i learned a lot out there
dude when i think about what my parents
let me do
compared to today like back then i was
pissed at how little they would let me
do yeah but it was basically like they
would just give you a couple rule sets
like i had to walk facing traffic i
don't know if that's smart or not but
can't ride your bike on main roads you
have to walk it and you have to walk
facing traffic but beyond that man we
would we would take our bikes miles away
from my house miles away from my house
no super no adults yeah no expectation
and by the way we were going miles away
to a bike track so that we could like do
tricks and [__] yes and it's like meh
it's crazy 100 and same with me
and um yeah
my mom was basically like yeah come down
by sundown you know she wouldn't know
what i was doing it was just i was out
doing stuff
um that stops happening for kids
and so
this like idea of of challenge in a lot
of different ways gets removed because
not only are you physically challenged
right when you are going out doing stuff
in the woods but also like your your
world view gets challenged think about
interactions on the playground
i got punched in the face on the
playground a lot
i probably deserved it sometimes and i
learned something from michael that may
say something about you
when that goes away
all of a sudden kids don't have
challenges and so now you have this
generation where because they have not
been challenged
what they consider a challenge is
something like you know i'm a professor
at unlv
so if they say something you know have a
point and i push back on that well all
of a sudden that's kind of scary because
you've never been punched in the face on
the playground right so that becomes
scary like in my classes i'll bring up
stuff and no one wants to say anything
because
oh well what if you know what if someone
challenges me or like there's um
they're
people
younger people especially i think um are
a little more sensitive to a lot of a
lot of the stuff we're talking about
here and um as a result of that you see
levels of anxiety and depression they're
higher in the generations born after
1990 than any other generations that
came before them like significantly
they're up like 30 and 50 percent jesus
yeah
it's crazy back in college i had a
professor make fun of my haircut and
this was a huge class i'm talking
probably 300 people in the class yeah
and he made fun of my hair in front of
everybody and i just thought the guy was
gangster because my hair was ridiculous
patently like there's just no way to
deny that yeah yeah i thought that was
fun but thinking about it today like
that [__] wouldn't fly yeah like people
would have a stroke what are things that
you've brought up in class and we will
get back to we land on the really small
plane and all of that but um what are
things that you'd be afraid to bring up
now
in school oh i'm not afraid to bring up
anything but really have you never been
reported for anything no i mean but i
will try to bring things up and just no
one engages so it's like what
where do i go with this so for example
if uh
teach by the way i teach journalism so i
have um i have classes going from that
are 150 kids to some that are
20 10 or whatever it is um
i call it the t word so if i were to say
anything about trump in class be like
what do you think about this no one will
touch it
which i realized you know he's very
controversial but that doesn't mean we
shouldn't be able to have a journalism
class yeah we shouldn't be able to have
a conversation about it the only person
who's ever
really been willing to talk about it
was 45 years old you know that tells you
something yeah wow that's really
interesting and not at all surprising
like and i do think about you know
originally i never wanted to touch the
culture wars like i wanted i didn't want
to think about it to be honest i didn't
find it interesting and then it just
kept like encroaching encroaching and
encroaching until finally i was like oh
i actually now feel like a coward for
not
being able to talk about this stuff
because so one thing that i'm really
conflicted about is you know impact
theory is a brand and so even though the
brand is
my wife and i and so there's no like
sort of external partners i still think
about like if we're really trying to
build the next disney and i want people
to be able to watch shows that we make
for kids it's like you got to be a
little bit thoughtful about how people
perceive the brand because right now
basically lisa and i are the brand and
so it's like the things that we talk
about so oh god
so i don't love that but i hated even
more coming sort of full circle back to
why you're out in the middle of the
arctic i didn't like the way avoiding it
was making me feel about myself
and because i really believe and i'll
say this as a psa that at the end of the
day the only thing that matters is how
you feel about yourself
and everybody else can think you're
amazing if you think you're a piece of
[__] then it's just done nothing else
matters yeah and so a lot of my life has
been about okay what do i have to do in
order to feel good about myself so
whether it's cold exposure whether it's
getting good at business whether it's
pushing myself in the gym like there
have been a lot of things many of them
physical which is super intriguing to me
because i think that there's just a
subconscious process that evolution had
to plant to make sure that you would go
out and hunt and do risky shits so that
you and you know your tribe could
survive so that's running in the
background and so finding ways to tap
into that i think are really really
important so on that note so we land
we're like in [__] bush country we've
got both the uh journalism hat on and
the
uh recovering alcoholic hat on yes and
now what is
what's your
thinking at this point like i'm excited
i'm nervous
like
i want to lean into the challenge
i think it's both
did you train for this
yeah but how do you how do you train for
more than a month in the arctic right i
mean because there are so many factors
that
you can't train for so for example one
of the first things i learned when we
get there
is the ground is absolute hell to walk
on in the tundra it's like this
i describe it as like a mattress that's
covered in partially inflated
basketballs it's like
soft the mattress area soft but then
there's all these tundra tussocks
they're the balls of
densely wound grass and so where do you
where do you step you can either step on
this mattress area that each of your
feet sink in each of your steps you sink
in saps your energy or you can try and
like balance on this ball of grass and
maybe roll an ankle so you know i could
how do you mimic that like in a gym type
setting you know
so
from there
you know we set up camp and then it's
like
we're hunting for 30 some odd days and
it gets uh it gets pretty uncomfortable
pretty quick you know because you learn
even if every single thing we do takes
effort i mean first of all so
you want water well you got to hike down
to that stream to get it and by the way
that's also where the grizzlies hang out
because they want to be around water and
they also know that
other animals come down there to drink
so they'll ambush them so you have to be
really careful so there's the physical
stress of the hike down
getting water and then having to hike
the heavy bag back up to camp and also
the psychological stress of like oh my
god this is where the grizzlies hang out
you know um
so everything and it's freezing cold
we're above the arctic circle right um
the weather isn't and i was coming from
las vegas in like august man so i've
been like it had been like 110 the day i
left i get up there and it's just my
body was not ready for that i had every
single layer on like right as we got out
of that for people listening to this
you're a pretty skinny dude
that actually hurt i think in retrospect
i would have put on
more weight
in the form of fat because i got up
there i'm six
one i was probably a buck seventy
and um
by the time i left i was like 160. i
waited yeah i weighed myself i'm
actually surprised you didn't lose more
weight after hearing all the crazy
hiking that you guys did yeah hiking
doesn't capture
the
difficulty i don't think yeah um
again i mean the ground is so terrible
and we had time like after we
after we hunted you have to pack the
caribou out and then your bag is 110
whatever pounds and you've got to hike
it all the way back to camp i mean
you know my background is that i worked
at men's health for a lot of years and
it was a good gig i was the guy that
they would throw into these like crazy
you know gyms and go profile crazy
people and i would always have to be
working out but that was by far the
hardest thing i've ever done like easily
um because not only again is there the
physical stress but also
the psychological stress and the weather
the ground and so bringing it back to
sort of the
overall idea of the book it's like think
of how much our environments have
changed right what i was doing out there
was essentially daily life for
essentially all of humanity all of the
time of humans dude that's when i hear
your book and i hear that statement and
i think that people argue whether life
has gotten better
and people are actually saying no it
hasn't gotten better i'm just like yo i
don't i actually don't understand how
people can computationally come to that
sort of conclusion
i get if you say that there are
trade-offs it's a trade-off like
forest bathing and getting back into the
wilderness and the three-day effect
which i'm sure we'll talk about like all
those things seem very very real to me
but in terms of like safety and access
to resources and not having to worry
like people the the thing you have to
think about in terms of your survival
just i'm talking statistics man so argue
with the math not with me is
overeating yes like that's going to be
the problem certainly in the developed
nation oh yeah um
yeah heart disease and stroke are the
number one killer of humans and
yeah so they do polls
and i think it's
either six or twelve percent of people
pulled in the united states think that
the world is getting better
think back
even a hundred years
kids were dying before five like all the
time i thought think back a thousand
years ten thousand years you gave a stat
iceland
uh the
death rate of infants in iceland do you
remember the number it's around 650 per
thousand live births would die that's
the highest ever recorded that's crazy
yeah so
there's this idea i talk about in the
book and um it's called prevalence
induced concept change which is a really
dorky way
of saying problem creep so there's these
two professors at harvard and they're
traveling to a conference right and
they're in line for tsa
they're looking at tsa what does tsa do
the beepers go off and they're like you
know they think that this banana that
you've packed in your bag is a beretta
so they're going to tear that damn thing
apart
they you know they frisk some old woman
who can't see or walk because there's
like a half filled bottle of water
they're just always looking for problems
and so they wonder
if all of a sudden
like the scanners never went off ever
everyone just obeyed the tsa rules 100
what would they do
would people just sail through without
problems and they didn't think so
because the ta studies job is to find
problems they thought they would start
searching for problems even when the
problems don't exist
so they do a study because they're these
harvard psychologists they got a
question right so now it's time to do a
study
they get a bunch of people
and they show them 800 different faces
and the people have one job and that is
to determine whether the faces they are
looking at are threatening or
non-threatening
seemingly very black or white right
so they start showing them these faces
you know so you go threatening
non-threatening threatening
ooh threatening non-threatening
but after about the 200th face they
start showing people fewer and fewer
threatening faces
they did a similar thing and it was
they would have them read research
proposals and they would say you know
is this ethical or unethical what these
researchers are proposing same deal
after about the 50th or 100th proposal
they started giving them fewer and fewer
unethical proposals so you would think
that you know if we really saw
black and white this is like a clear
judgment of like does this person
make me feel threatened or does this
research proposal cross this like moral
line in the sand that i have drawn and i
am firm on then they would start saying
threatening few less times they would
start saying uh
ethical more times right as the thing
went on that didn't actually happen
the
uh the ratio stayed the exact same so
they so they basically started saying
that faces that were seemingly
non-threatening were threatening and
that research proposals that they would
have deemed ethical were unethical
so this basically showed that as humans
face fewer and fewer problems in our
lives
we don't actually
experience fewer problems we just
redefine what a problem is and it's
because
as the world has gotten better
so think back even in 100 years we've
got climate control now we've got cars
we've got cell phones we've got all the
streets are paved
how many people listening to this
podcast work in a farm work on a farm
for a living and go out there and till
it all day not many right probably sit
behind a desk
you're pretty safe right
the world has clearly gotten better but
we don't actually see that because we
our brain has this low-level mechanism
that's always running to
find the next problem
and this made sense in our past
because if you're a hunter-gatherer and
you don't know where your food is coming
from you're not quite sure about shelter
tonight
life is actually dangerous if you can
just focus on problems all the time
that's going to give you a survival
advantage but in today's world
where arguably
uh
there's still problems in the world
don't get me wrong
but i think that overall
things are pretty good we don't actually
see that yeah yeah this is the problem
with societal level experimentation is
one it's a bit like steering a boat so
you do something and there's a real
delay before the boat starts moving so
then you're like wait was it this thing
or this thing there's a lot of confusion
like for instance
part of the reason that i don't have
kids is for the like kidnap effect right
look it's a bazillion reasons so people
don't have to think that was the only
reason but like i have
all the empathy in the known universe
for that parent whose kid did get
kidnapped and all the stats about the
world is getting better in the world
they don't help like the devastation
that that would bring in your life and
so
for any one person to make the rational
decision of
the cost-benefit analysis is so high on
letting my kid go out like what could
happen is so devastating potentially
that it's just better just you know
let's just keep them safe because i
don't i certainly am not smart enough to
have predicted that it would create this
comfort crisis problem
not something that i would have seen
coming and by the way i don't consider
myself sort of above
any of the comfort crisis issues this is
not me passing judgment on other people
this is me going yo i want to live an
optimal life for myself and at a
societal level i want to make sure that
people are set up to thrive
and i'm perfectly willing to look at my
own behavior and say oh there are some
problems here like my life has been a
journey of toughening up so i was not
tough growing up
despite getting uh
into not like big fights but i got you
know punched in the head or
uh one kid twisted my arm and dropped me
to my knees when i thought i was like
king [__] and that was like a real cool
like eye opening like oh wait a second
there are people that are way [__]
tougher than me
uh and
even now like that happened in grade
school and that really left an indelible
mark and so you begin to like navigate
the world and you sort of find your lane
and so i found a lane of comedy i was
able to make people laugh and then as i
got older and realized all of my comedy
is at my expense it was all
self-deprecating humor and i got to the
point where i wanted to take myself more
seriously so anyway to get good at
business i had to realize whoa like i am
not resilient i am not tough i shy away
from criticism because it hurts and it
will send me into a multi-day spiral
yeah but i had these grand ambitions and
so finally you know through a long
process get to the point where i
realized
for me to actually achieve my goals i
have to get really good at self-soothing
like i have to get back to
sort of emotionally neutral as quickly
as i can
and the gym was a huge factor in that to
realize how much suffering you can
endure and that when you do that you
actually get stronger and there's
something about
physical
endeavors and and i do
i don't think i would have had success
in business had i not taken control of
my body so had i not decided to get very
serious in the gym very serious about my
diet so you're sitting there there's
food in the fridge there's food in the
cupboards your favorite foods and i
remember getting in an argument with my
wife because i had a really bad headache
when i was trying to go low carb and i
was like if i just eat a cookie right
now i will feel better and she was like
they need the [__] cookie like stop
complaining about it either eat the
cookie or stop complaining yeah and i
was like all right i'm not gonna eat the
cookie and you do that kind of stuff and
you start to build that resilience you
lift the weights and you literally build
calluses you
injure yourself and you build back from
that and you realize okay like
there are
i can do things that make me stronger
and
that then led me to go well if this
works for my body how much does it work
for my mind and can i get tougher in
business
and
it was
nothing short of life-changing yeah so
talk to me now about rites of passage
which is so
i
have empathy for people that were raised
with the best of intentions but not the
best of results how do they get out of
it
well i think that um
people just like yourself everyone
does well when we're challenged now
we've removed challenge from our life in
a lot of different ways right so i think
when you look back at
sort of past societies ancient cultures
tribes they all had a right of passage
for young people right so the idea and
it's all the same basic framework
we have a young person this person is a
point a in their life and we need to get
them to point b because point b is where
they can really help the tribe can you
define point a and point b
point a is sort of um seen as like
youthful childhood you're still kind of
clinging to your parents you're not
quite as confident and competent as you
could be point b is like you are
officially transitioned into adulthood
more or less you're able to go out on
your own and really uh provide take on a
family whatever have you looked at this
closely enough to know if it's you're
clinging to your parents or you're
clinging to your mother it's usually a
mother yes yeah it's usually yeah i mean
there's some really interesting [__]
there but keep going we'll circle back
to that for sure so what these uh
what these uh societies would do
is
usually send the young person out
into the wild to do something really
hard so for example the messiah had a
lion hunt where a young warrior would be
given a shield and a spear
said all right go get a line for us by
themselves by themselves yes and were
some of them eaten yes
uh so the maasai
cultural website has this hilarious line
that says
many young warriors have been lost to
lions over the years it's just like so
understated you're like oh my god
um
the nez perce indians
would uh send young men out onto the
columbia river plateau they would
wouldn't give them food or water and
they would just sort of like pray and
fast for you know a week around a week
um the aboriginal tribe they would uh
send young men out on walkabout and so
the idea is that
you are exiting the comfort of home
right you were going into this trying a
realm of discomfort and danger quite
frankly discomfort
danger
you're going to get put in a position
where you want to quit you think you're
going to fail you're going to have these
real people when they were doing this uh
anywhere from like 12 to 18 typically so
there's no like set number like oh what
for whatever reason they converge on 14
years old it's not like yeah no it's all
kinds of different
um
and by going out there and you know
really having to rough it they often
learn something about themselves that
they are more capable than they thought
because they hadn't got put in a
position before where
man i'm facing some true peril i don't
know if i can make this but by coming
out the other side they go oh
actually i'm capable of more than i
thought i might have sold myself short
on some things then they can return back
to the tribe and they have this newfound
confidence and competence and they've
sort of transitioned into that point b
that we want them at
so this may be
the thing i am most fascinated by in
life quite literally so i read joseph
campbell's the power of myth and it
changed my life forever yeah so i'm
reading this book i'm probably i don't
know 21 22 something like that and i can
never remember because i haven't gone
back to reread it i can't remember how
much of this is me sort of putting words
in his mouth and what he actually said
so
if i attribute this to him and he didn't
actually say it forgive me but
what i took away from the book was hey
people have gotten soft there are no
rites of passage anymore
and part of the reason that so many
marriages fail is there's no transition
from
youth to adult
unmarried to married and so at the time
i'm reading i think i'm already i'm
either already
dating
my now wife or we may have already been
engaged but so i'm reading this and i'm
like ooh there's no like coming-of-age
rituals anymore and he talks about how
the the marriage rituals have sort of
gotten like sort of a little too easy
i thought this is really interesting so
i want to get married once and be
married forever and i'm taking this
whole till death do us part thing very
seriously and i completely understand
sexual attraction and that you know i
will have an impulse forever to have sex
with as many women as humanly possible
and so
kind of like the push-ups in the parking
lot like that pull is gonna be there
forever for me so
what do i do to overcome that to make
sure that the commitment is more
interesting to me than that and so i
decide i'm gonna go through a
ritualistic scarification as a part of
getting married so that i am literally a
different person the day before i get
married and the day after yeah now
today we would call that a tattoo
but i never wanted a tattoo that truly
at the time
beyond getting lost at sea which remains
my biggest fear uh my second biggest
fear was needles
and so i was like okay i'm gonna get a
tattoo it's gonna hurt it's something
that scares the life out of me i really
do not want to do this
and it will make sure that i go through
some sort of ritual and so i design the
tattoo i get the tattoo to this day
despite my wife who [__] loves
tattoos on guys and desperately wants me
to get more i'm like nope that was like
this really meaningful thing to me that
made a statement about my commitment to
you and all that um
so utterly fascinated by that and
there's one story that i want to write
so for anybody that um doesn't know
we're trying to build the next disney so
i actually think more about storytelling
probably than anything else um other
than business and
there's one story i i am desperate to
write and i cannot find if this is
actually true or not but i either have
created a memory from my youth or i
really did read this that there were
these juvenile delinquents so i grew up
in tacoma washington and native american
stuff there is really sort of a part of
everyday culture and
i remember hearing the story about these
juvenile delinquents that had gotten
into the court system and the courts
wanted to put one to try them as adults
because if i remember right they were 16
or 17.
and the tribe said no let us take them
out into the wilderness
if i remember right for a year
and they will be on their own and if
they survive we will welcome them back
into society and if they don't
then they don't i mean to your point
about the the lion hunting and i
probably read that when i was a teenager
and it just stuck with me this idea of
like we're dropping these [__]
in the woods totally like good luck
and
going back to the maasai which i find
really really interesting what do you
think about that like that they actually
get eaten by lions is is it
is the juice worth the squeeze
well look here's how i think about it
i think that we
i mean
that seems rather extreme to me
might not have been extreme given the
environment that they lived in at the
time and came up from right
nowadays does seem a little extreme to
me does someone have to die on these no
but
i'm asking okay well what can we learn
from that
so in my book i talk about
i talk about the idea that we need to
essentially
introduce these metaphorical lions back
into our life and how do we do that so i
met this guy whose name is marcus
elliott and he is a
harvard trained doctor he decided he
doesn't want to be you know like a
practicing physician he wants to
revolutionize sports science
big grand idea
and he basically does it
so he
he takes this job with the patriots
first off and they had this uh they were
terrible when he took the job they had
like 26 hamstring injuries a year he
drops it down to three the next season
and uh they end up winning some super
bowls then he becomes the mlb's first
performance director now he owns this
place called p3 they have a location in
atlanta one in santa barbara contracts
with the nba contracts with a bunch of
different leagues like all the players
have to go through there and what he's
doing
is he wanted to apply sort of deep data
and more science to athletic training
because at the time it was basically
like
tweak your reps and sets and exercises
and weights right so he does uh all this
machine learning stuff with movement so
he can basically scan a player they put
all these like reflective dots and video
camera and then they can get a model
that basically says oh the way that your
knee comes in when you land on this jump
you have a 60 chance of tearing an acl
next season you know so it's super
precise and really interesting a lot of
numbers data figures
ai big flashy things but here's the
thing
he also realizes that what improves uh
not only the performance and potential
of these pro athletes he works with but
also everyday humans can always be
measured
so this is where something like a rite
of passage comes in now the way that he
approaches this is with this idea that i
talk about in the book called masogi
and the idea is that
once a year
i'm going to go out and do something
really hard okay well what's really hard
something that i think i truly have a 50
50 shot of accomplishing true 50 shot
and i'm not going to train super hard
for it i'm just going to have to go out
and do it
rule number two back to the question
about the maasai rule number two is
don't die so don't be dumb about it
right
so things that he's done with
friends
athletes et cetera is one year for
example they get an 85-pound boulder and
they walk it uh
underneath the santa barbara channel for
five miles so one guy dives down picks
up the boulder walks at 10 20 feet
comes back up next guy goes down on and
on and on until this boulder is at point
b they've also done simple stuff like
hey there's that mountain way in the
distance you think we could make it
there in a day
i don't know
maybe 50 50. all right let's try
along the way you're gonna get to this
point right
where you're like man i have reached
my limit there's no way i can finish
this like i i can't keep putting one
foot in front of the other i can't do
this
but you're gonna keep going either way
and then you're gonna look back and be
like
wait a minute
there's back there was where i thought
my limit was but i'm right here now and
if i'm selling myself short
here like where else in life am i
selling myself short now the idea is
that we are mimicking these challenges
that our environment used to naturally
show us in the past so in the past yes
we had right of passages right
but we also had to do hard stuff all the
time this could be like a hunt if you're
out of food and you need to hunt man you
need to you need to do that thing this
is a real challenge you might have to
move from your summer into wintering
grounds and a storm comes in
and each time we would do one of those
things we would learn something about
ourselves what our potential was and we
would grow as humans we would become
more confident more competent we would
get like spiritual satisfaction from
that even right
and now we've completely wiped not only
rights of passage but even physical
challenges out of our days so we're not
ever really shown what our true
potential is so for example
when you told me
the arctic i don't know if i could do
that man like that terrifies me yeah
[__] i love you man but that is a
bunch of [__]
i'm gonna tell you why
because you have the luxury now of being
born in this time and age
where that seems pretty tricky now if
you were born 10 000 years ago
you would just call that life
right so i think we've become uh
it's amazing all these comforts we have
there's nothing wrong with them i think
we're i think they're great
like absolutely full stop
but if we never put ourselves in the
position of true challenge then we don't
really
learn something about ourselves and come
out and be like
hell yeah i could do that because when
you have that attitude all of a sudden
the
stuff that comes at us in modern life
it's just like eh
you know like i got stuck in traffic i
have to give this presentation in front
of people
well i survived a you know a hurricane
in the arctic like a year ago so i think
this will be manageable right and so i
think we're just so removed from those
environments that
when that we
think about having to go back into that
it can be scary you know like i wasn't
exactly
thinking that i could do it when i first
went out there but i did and now i've
come out on the other side and it's like
[__] man you're a lot cooler than i
thought you were
you know it's actually a really
interesting idea so you've got
um the problem creep and then you've got
comfort creep where it's so
spending 30 plus days in the arctic does
not sound like my idea of a good time
yeah um i once got invited to do uh free
diving okay which is literally my
nightmare yeah you've ever seen the
movie um sounds nightmarish to me
or something i can't remember the the
exact name of it but it's a true story
about these people that end up getting
they go on a diving trip and they
miscount when people come back up on the
boat and these two people get left okay
out in the middle of the ocean and by
the time they realize it's just too late
they're gone
and it sounds horrifying oh my god i
don't want to watch it nope it literally
was
watching it i was like hey they did an
amazing job it is two people bobbing up
and down in the water and they keep it
interesting for an hour and a half
and uh that that is my nightmare but um
when i think about comfort creep and i
think about things in my own life so
i work an average of 93 hours a week
every week
year round year after year after year
and i know there are people that are
like that's crazy like that would be
just an atrocity but for me it's life
and it's the life that i've built and
want and when i think about so first of
all i what i was explaining to people is
i the reason it's 93 and not 94 is 93
are joyful the 94th would not be and so
i don't work the 94th hour right so some
of it is just that i
i don't want to step away from my life
which is ah probably not smart like as i
think about it and some of the key
takeaways from your book it's like i
spend so much time thinking about making
sure that i optimize
i optimize my life for joy that's like
my
i'll call it fulfillment that's probably
a better way to think about it but you
need to be joyful in your pursuit of
fulfillment
i'm so focused on optimizing my life for
joy but i'm also hyper aware that you
shift in and out of these time periods
in your life and things are different
from one moment to the next and so you
don't want to be oblivious to the fact
that this period of your life won't last
forever
and so you don't want to get to the next
phase of your life and just be like from
this new frame of reference my entire
life seems like a mistake
so you know i try to be very very
thoughtful about that
but yeah the idea of comfort creep that
you need to be very careful about what
they're on both sides that you can
sink into
whether it's drinking or something else
and you're enduring something that's
just like
you're creating problems for yourself
and then on the other side where you're
just allowing yourself to be too
comfortable yeah i think so and look
it's
the human brain loves routine right
we evolved to um want to get in a
routine because in the past that used to
keep us safe if i could know where a
good food source was and go to it every
day
if i knew where
the lions were lurking
that would keep me safe if i could
predict something about the weather that
would keep me safe so our brain really
likes to default to
do predictable things
this is great in the past but today it
can often cause us to sort of zone out
so there's some interesting research
out of uh i think oxford might have been
cambridge where the researchers
basically said that when you've done the
same thing over and over your brain kind
of goes on this autopilot mode because
it can predict everything so it's like
why be present and focused and in the
moment when you can just kind of be lost
right going through your routine
so we sort of miss
a lot of life right this is so an
example that i like to give around this
is like you ever drive on your commute
somewhere and it's a drive you've done
before and
all of a sudden you look up and like 20
minutes have gone by and you're like
holy crap like i don't even know what
just happened the last 20 minutes you
just been and you don't even know where
you were you were just lost inside your
head well we can go through life like
that so i think
the idea of trying to
do new things learn new things that
totally shake up a routine
is interesting because now all of a
sudden i can't predict the future
and i've got to learn some new stuff and
i've got to do some new stuff and this
is forcing you
into presence and focus
right because oh i can't predict stuff
anymore and i think there's benefits to
that i mean this is ultimately what you
know meditation and mindfulness is so
popular right now and there's you know
some i think really good arguments for
it
but i also think that not everyone is
keen on sitting down and you know
focusing on their breath for 20 minutes
a day that's just how people are so if
you can learn and do new things i think
that you're going to get some of those
benefits that mindfulness is partially
chasing
just by making you focus and aware of
like what you're doing it's like
when i was in the arctic like i can i
remember every single detail because
that was unlike anything i've ever done
before
i couldn't tell you what the hell i did
two days ago
right we get back into our normal lives
and things can just sort of
go over and over so it's like the idea
of
doing something new and challenging
you're gonna remember that like i've
talked to people
you know in the book i talk a lot about
some of the benefits of uh
boredom and just detaching from
electronics of all type and i talked to
a guy who had read it
and he was like you know i used to go on
he lived in costa rica he goes i used to
go on this walk all the time
and i would always take my phone and i
would listen to
you know radio podcast whatever
and i do the same walk every day he's
like and i read your book
and i was like okay i'm gonna like brave
this like you know bored i'm just gonna
go for a walk and he's like and i'm
walking
and i see this trail of ants
and it's like this perfect formation
through the jungle and it weaves up the
thing and he's like and it's one of the
most unbelievable amazing things
i've ever seen i'm like you're gonna
remember those ants
for the rest of your life my man
you
probably wouldn't even be able to tell
me like what you listened to three days
ago had you taken your your phone you
know so i think that
having these moments that force us into
presence
is good now it's uncomfortable because
we want to default to
the routine and to be constantly
stimulated all the time right but this
no longer serves us and i think that's
the main message of the book you know i
interpret in the book discomfort in a
lot of different ways it's not just
physical
it's psychological it's being in like
even being in silence people can't stand
silence anymore why not
it makes us uncomfortable because we
have thoughts we don't like because we
have to be with ourselves yes we have
thoughts we don't like
um we tend to default towards being
stimulated rather than not being
stimulated right all of a sudden you
become bored that's
difficult it's hard to deal with you
know boredom um to get a little bit into
boredom boredom is this evolutionary
discomfort that basically told us
whatever you are doing with your time
right now the return on your time
invested has worn thin so in the book i
use the analogy of think of picking
berries from a bush as you pick the
really easy to reach berries it's fun
it's engaging it's like oh my god
there's a big one and there's a big one
we're getting so many but as you pick
more and more all of a sudden the
berries become harder to find they're
way back in the bush so now your the
return on your time invested isn't as
high so you get bored
and that discomfort tells you go do
something else with your time
so you do you go to the next bush and
you do that right
but nowadays
we have very easy escapes from that
discomfort of boredom so there's one
neuroscientist i talked to who put it
great he goes yeah but nowadays like our
our escape from boredom is essentially
junk food for the mind a lot of time
what do people do the second they feel
bored
they pull out their phone
what do we do when we realize that our
screen time is five hours a day and i
might have a problem with this thing and
i'm gonna try and use it less
we go oh [__] i can't use my phone
netflix
computer screen
uh radio whatever it might be right so
we have this constant
digital stimulation so average person
spends more than 11 hours a day engaged
with digital media
just from all different forms that we
have now you know a lot of focus gets
put on phones but for the average
american they watch more tv
so in the book i'm arguing it's not
about less phone it's about more boredom
we need times we're totally dis
disconnected from
this outside
stimulation i realized the punchline
what do you get from boredom
one okay there's a couple of things that
happen uh first of all when you are
focusing on the outside world
your uh your brain is focused right it's
working it's this is a work mode
that is taxing to your brain i compare
it in the book to sort of like lifting a
weight so your brain has to focus has to
process information
when you're bored your brain actually
goes inward
it starts to sort of ruminate it
you
sort of have these different thoughts
that are more inward focused this
happens to be a rest state turns on the
default mode network which gives your
brain a bit of a rest so when your brain
is constantly overworked and overworked
it's associated with a lot of problems
like anxiety and just feeling like wound
up burnt out essentially the conditions
that so many workers feel today right
number two and i think this is most
interesting especially for
anyone who creates anything
is that having times of boredom is
associated with a lot more creativity
because when i look at my phone when i
go on instagram and i look at
whatever it might be
i'm giving my attention over to someone
else's ideas that they've come up with
right now if i'm forced to go inward
i'm probably going to think of some
weird stuff don't get me wrong i'm
probably going to be like
i wonder if i uh turned the rain the gas
range off before i left home i wonder
you know but i'm also going to think of
i'm also going to notice things
i'm going to have some thoughts about
something i'm working on and i might
come up with a lot of new ideas i
started thinking about this in the
arctic because my cell phone didn't i i
mean there wasn't a bar to be had within
a hundred mile radius right i didn't
bring a book i didn't bring a magazine
and because we're hunting we're sitting
on this hill
we are waiting for this herd of caribou
to move through a valley
now they weren't wanting to do that so
we basically just sat and waited for
days and days
and it was like oh my god
i haven't been bored like this for a
long time are you guys chatting at all
we're chatting but like
you gonna talk for 12 hours straight you
know eventually kind of people just
quiet down and
you know so what do i do i'm like
spend a little bit of time just doing
nonsense i read the labels on my protein
bars i am so bored i am reading the tags
on my outdoor gear going hey guys you
can't dry clean this you know just
stupid stuff
but then all of a sudden i think
i should write some of my book
so i start to write a lot of my book
i start to come up with different ideas
for a lot of the magazines i write for i
come up with like 17 ideas and they were
all good because i just had this time of
just like pure
inward thought
right
and
i argue we don't have that a lot even
when we have these moments where we're
thinking of things
we're getting
we have a screen in front of us we're
getting like pinged and we need like
these moments of boredom so the way that
i practice this in my life today
is i try to take a 20-minute walk
outside totally disconnected every
single day and i just use this for
to think on ideas to chip away at stuff
and i can tell you like it totally helps
totally helps and they've done research
on this there's really hilarious studies
where they'll take uh one group and they
just are like yeah you can just do
whatever on your phone they'll take
another group and they will bore the
hell out of them
they make them watch a video of two guys
folding laundry for like 10 minutes so
you can stand it for about one minute
and then you just totally go inward and
you know you're like uh
for the other nine minutes and then they
give them creativity tests the groups
that were bored
always crush the people who would just
come out of being on their phone oh
weird yeah
that's so weird
so do you have a hypothesis on why
you're more creative when you've been
bored is it just that you've been
thinking i think it's
i think it's the rest period that your
brain gets as part of it and i think
also
you are
coming up with your own ideas you have
like this time where your brain is kind
of in this gear of like
i'm thinking about different stuff it's
all inward and then you can use that
outward so boredom is really neither
good nor bad it basically just tells us
hey do something
now the something today is more and more
giving your ideas over or your thoughts
over to you know someone else's ideas on
a screen which is great because i think
there's amazing stuff out there but i
also think we need a little bit more
time where we are just sort of with
ourselves and our own ideas
you know i've often thought about so we
have this um what do they call the
naturalistic fallacy it's like because
that's how our ancestors were it must
have been good it must have been better
yeah i often thought like um could they
really be like hunting and gathering
enough that like that just takes up the
whole day it just seemed like what do
they do
with the spare time like one thing look
i get that it can be dangerous and
people can waste their time and spiral
just scrolling scrolling the doom scroll
or whatever they call it on instagram
and twitter but
i also do some really cool [__] with my
time like things that i'm like i would
not want to give this up for anything i
mean this is like i have handcrafted my
life to be
the most like sort of spiritually
nutrient dense you know per
minute of time yeah
and the thought of like backtracking so
you know i look at civilization and i
think this seems inevitable so it's like
well i don't want to have to walk down
to get the water every time and i don't
want to have to brave the bears and so
it's like you start like doing it starts
with spears and then fire and then
you're like hey maybe if we move the tps
together and you know what i mean so you
start moving sort of i will say
inextricably towards where we are
i become obsessed with this idea and my
audience is going to get real tired of
hearing me say this but i think it's so
powerful there's pathology on both sides
so you can
and i want to be careful to
differentiate between boredom and
isolation but that mechanism by which
the brain is searching for some sort of
like intellectual echolocation of i send
an idea out into the world and it comes
back to me right i need that return
which is why you're reading labels and
like you're trying to get some sort of
two-way feedback right and without that
you can actually break an adult human
psyche by just isolating them for too
long you can actually kill a child by
just not loving them ignoring them they
it's what's called failure to thrive so
it's like this really interesting like
the mind needs some of this engagement
it needs the i mean like you said
there's a reason that you have
a boredom sensation and that it is
unpleasant and that it pushes you away
from that thing right and so but then on
the other side you can hyperstimulate
and now it becomes a problem in fact
that really begs an interesting question
to me
how do you construct your life as
somebody who has done misogy who's gone
out into the wilderness who
has this constant pull towards drinking
and knows that that's not the life you
want to live so you're sort of the
perfect candidate for you have all the
incentive in the universe to figure out
sort of the ideal life how do you
construct your days that's a good
question um
i mean i so i'm
first and foremost a writer right i'm a
journalist so
i tend to wake up
really early and that's partially
because i have a 90 pound german short
hair pointer who decides it's 4 30 and
we should get up
so you don't set an alarm no
no i have a 90 pound alarm that eats a
lot of food
and uh then i usually write because i
have this
alone time
it's time that i'm completely
unstimulated the world is not coming at
me yet so usually from like 4 30 to
maybe about 7 30 is when stuff starts to
come in so i got three hours a day where
i can just do my outlet right
and i'll usually uh if it's not way too
hot already i'll usually go outside i
live on i live in vegas yeah so i'll
usually go out on my back patio so i
have like some trees and stuff around me
and i'll just do that for like
three hours that's the most important
part i think of my day and i do that 365
days what are you doing out there just
writing
so that is that the same as the morning
writing yeah okay yeah yeah so this is
the morning
and then from there it's like you know
i'm not arguing in the book that we
should all just like
put our phones away and never use them
again or you know
and then i live a relatively normal life
i mean i use i train usually every day
um
i got a gym in my garage i do a lot of
rucking out in the desert and running
out in the desert which is something i
talk about in the book the wrecking
element
um i usually meditate working for people
that don't know heavy pack yeah that
[__] around yeah you'd go into a whole
hypothesis in the book about our
ancestors probably got pretty strong by
being able to carry [__] yeah and that
might have been one of our advantages
yes we should talk about that when we're
done with this but
yeah and then you know like i don't
overthink it i just live a sort of
normal life and
i don't try and micromanage all of my
time i would say i kind of let things
come and go but i really
do want that three hours where i can
write
and think and be totally alone and sort
of unstimulated and when i'm doing that
writing um i'm only using the browser if
it's to aid the writing because i do
non-fiction so i'm not just sitting
around coming up with ideas but i'd have
to do a lot of research so all right so
maybe now is the right time before we
forget to get into rucking and i really
am interested in this idea of us as the
you give it a real name i'm gonna call
it endurance hunting there's a better
persistence persistence
so um
i didn't watch the video
which i probably should have who we are
where we come from dan something oh yeah
who we are donnie's yeah donnie thank
so what's the punchline of that i'm
assuming it's us from an ancestral point
of view he in that video he basically
just talks about why he hunts um and
it's more just about how you know we're
removed from the life cycle and um by
inserting ourselves back into that
he
finds that it it sort of moves the dial
for him personally emotionally
emotionally yeah spiritually um so i
think for donny at least who um is who i
want hunting with up there and he's uh
this backcountry bowhunter filmmaker
makes
amazing i mean it's more like planet
earth but with hunting and you should
watch this mini documentary he made on
youtube called who we are sort of
explains what he's all about but he's
he's a fascinating guy
but to uh to the point of wrecking so
after a while i eventually hunt and i
successfully kill this caribou which was
you know that was another discomfort i
had to face out there is uh was that the
most important part of the trip for you
i think so yeah that was probably the
most important part of the
more than seeing what you could
physically endure
i don't know it all kind of becomes one
thing to me
you know because there's really they're
really interlinked
um
parsing them out
i think misses like this greater point
that a lot of work
went in physical work went in before
crossing that really heavy emotional
barrier of killing my own food
so it's like
if i hadn't put all that work in i don't
think that emotional thing would have
been as heavy so it really is kind of
like they're weaving in and out so it's
kind of hard to
parse them out um
but so
um a killer caribou
now
we have to pack it out
so
my pack was maybe
120 pounds i mean 100 somewhere between
100 and 120 you know that's what we're
estimating based on how much we know
that caribou weighs
and packing it out was the hardest thing
i've ever done because it was five miles
back to camp uh it was all uphill it was
across the tundra so like 500 miles or
like five normal miles or five 100 miles
like five normal miles you know it's
it's so hard to walk on and it got me
thinking right so there's this idea
that humans
evolved to run we evolved to run so we
could hunt so when you look at how
humans are built
we are terrible athletes we're bad
compared to all other animals we are not
fast
the freaking pink poodle in paris
hilton's purse it could probably outrun
usain bolt right
uh we're also terrible at like moving
quick side to side like try and chase
down a dog good luck right
we're also not that strong there's a lot
of other animals that are way stronger
than us
but what we are uniquely good at is
running really long distances relatively
slowly in the heat and the heat is the
key thing there so
we sweat most four-legged animals do not
sweat
we also have big butt muscles
we have complicated ways of cooling air
before it hits our lungs so we're just
really good at going far in the heat and
we would use this to our advantage on
hot days when we would hunt so we would
do this thing called persistence hunting
we would see an animal we would start to
slowly but surely run it down we'd bump
it it would sprint it would get really
hot and overheated because other animals
aren't good at cooling themselves and
then we catch up to it bump it again and
eventually after say 10 15 even 20 miles
the animal would get so hot that it
would topple over from heat exhaustion
so then we get that spear
whap
we're done almost
this brings me to the second thing we're
good at so once you kill an animal and
you need to get back to camp what do you
have to do you have to carry it back to
camp [__] that's the second thing we're
good at other animals can we just chase
this [__] thing forever forever
forever and now we're only halfway done
yes now we're only halfway we have to
carry it back you have to carry back and
that's the other thing that humans are
uniquely good at other animals can't
carry they have to like grab something
in their jaw and they can only go
not appreciable distance before they
fatigue
so then we would carry this heavy weight
back to camp so a lot has been written
about you know barefoot running and how
we evolved to run and this is important
and it is
but the missing part is that we were
also and i argue in book even more so
born to carry because we'd have to carry
this me all the way back to camp and it
was heavy and when you look at gathering
gathering doesn't involve running but
what it does involve is carrying all the
stuff you've gathered back to camp we
carry uh women carry babies right we
would even do things like there's
evidence that we would carry rocks
really far distances to make structures
so i go to harvard and i meet the guy
who
who did the original born to run study
which was in 2004 that found all the
stuff about running i talked about and
talked to him about caring and
yeah turns out it's uh it's really good
for us something that we evolved to do
and so he argues that basically doing
the things that humans evolved to do
that we evolved to do and are good at
seems to be
uniquely good for us all exercise is
good
but cardiovascular exercise seems to be
great we know we need a certain amount
of strength you know so we evolved we
weren't strong like today's people in
the gym like we just weren't we needed
enough to live
and
you think about it a lot of people have
added running back into their lives for
exercise right like running is obviously
a thing that people do
but how many people for a workout go you
know what i'm going to do i'm going to
pick up some really heavy [__] and i'm
going to move it from point a to point b
like does it need to be on the back
it can be any but on the back is
efficient so that got me thinking
to lead into that like
who like who has
done like who does carry for a workout
turns out special forces soldiers
soldiers in general so they do this in
the form of rocking wrecking is the
foundation of special forces training so
when you watch documentaries about hell
week on the discovery channel and they
show people getting you know doing
push-ups in the surf that's like a
couple hours of like a two-week thing
most of it is you load a heavy pack with
weight and we're gonna have to land
navigate from point a to point b
and so i go and i meet with these guys
in jacksonville
there's this group of special forces
soldiers who've started this company
called goruck the guy who started his
name is jason mccarthy and he's a green
beret and they make these uh backpacks
that are up to military specifications
but they look good in a in a in a city
basically they don't look too like
tactical dude you know
and he's really trying to grow rucking
as a form of exercise because the
benefit of wrecking is that it gives you
the cardiovascular benefits of running
but you also have a strength element so
he describes it as
running uh cardio for people who hate to
run
and lifting for people who hate the gym
and its injury rate is way lower than
running like running i think the
yearly injury rate is anywhere from 20
to 70 percent that's just because of the
way we now live and we're generally
really heavy people compared to what we
were in the past but
wrecking is essentially has the injury
rate of walking you know just barely
higher than that is there like a
percentage to body weight kind of thing
or just in terms of how much weight you
should use yeah so the military has
studied this a ton because you look back
at the past and
you know uh
ancient warfare going way back in time
they all carried stuff into battle you
know this would be spears shields
um sacks with what they needed this
usually would max out at about 30 pounds
but once we start getting good at war
these weights start creeping heavier and
heavier and heavier so i think by the
iraq war the average uh soldiers
carrying a hundred pounds but in vietnam
it was like 80 you know
and so they start finding finding that
this isn't really good for us this is
too much weight so they do a bunch of
studies there were some conducted in the
50s there have been some that were
conducted in the 2000s and they all come
to the conclusion essentially that 50
pounds is the maximum
for soldiers that keeps the injury rate
low
improves fitness but also allows
soldiers to move quickly to fight war
well so i think so in the book i talk
about
50 pounds is probably the heaviest you
should go regardless of how big you are
generally
i mean obviously it's a little more
complicated than that if you're like a
250 pound guy you're probably gonna be
okay with 60 versus if you're like a
hundred pound person like 50 50 is
pretty heavy that's no joke yeah so
generally though 50 is the highest you
should go some people also use a third
body weight
but i also think that
especially when people start to get into
250 pounds a lot of that is probably
going to be from fat which isn't
necessarily doing a lot for you so just
stick to 50 max anyways i mean when i do
it i don't i'm if i'm going out in the
desert wrecking i use like 35 it's just
a weight where i'm like i feel like i'm
doing some
extra strength work but i can still move
quickly enough to get that cardio
element so and do you think that so
weighted vests
logically to me seem better because
you're distributing the weight some in
front and some and back is there a
reason that putting it all on your back
is better
so there is
uh what do most people do for work
nowadays
we're like this
all right we're slumped over a desk
and this tends to give us back problems
especially if you're an active person
because your body sort of gets used to
that posture and then you lift stuff and
you're in that sort of slumped over back
and it can easily result in a bulge disc
and when you put the weight on your back
it sort of pulls you into a naturally
safer position and it turns out that
your spine sort of likes that light sort
of
moving back and forth with the weight on
your back it's good for it i learned
that from stu mcgill who's like the
world's foremost back guy um and he
thinks it's a pretty great exercise for
the back
very interesting in the wait i was going
to say though weighted vests still great
though you know i i've gotten a lot of
outreach from people you know like
should i never use a weighted vest and
it's like
one any physical activity is good at all
yeah do the one that you like to do i
think rucking is great you know don't
overthink it too much if you're really
one of those people who wants to
optimize it like yeah back but like just
get out and move more you know if you
were at a stand-up desk would you wear a
weighted vest
or a rucksack sorry for that um
i'll tell you what i have done is that
as i was getting ready for the arctic
knowing that i had to have a pack on my
back all day when i would do stupid
stuff around the house like
oh i got a vacuum or oh i gotta like i'm
cooking dinner i'm gonna be moving
around i would totally wear a backpack i
look like an idiot but no that makes
sense to me especially because the way
that i live my life there isn't a lot of
hiking that i do yeah um so even just
moving around the house to have a chance
to you know schlep it around yeah
efficiency is something that i'm
definitely way
into yeah um in the book you get really
into
death
was it the um killing of the caribou
that put that so top of mind because i'd
love to hear more about your trip to
bataan yeah yeah i think it was so
donnie invites me up to the arctic
and i'm like okay i'll go you know
there's something there i don't want to
go right kind of like i was like your
reaction i'm like i don't know man um
but that's sort of 50 50 right that's a
sign that there's maybe something there
for me
so i go and
i was initially planning on not hunting
because
i really just you know my excuse to
donny was like well i'm a journalist
like i'm there to just observe and not
participate you know it's what i do and
he's just like well i think you'd really
understand why we come up here a lot
more if you were to hunt
and i decided to trust him on that i was
like okay so you know
i buy a hunting tag
i'm even carrying the rifle around the
whole time but i'm still did you get
good at shooting
uh i took well i've been around guns a
lot in my life in terms of rifle
shooting
i met with a guy who's a federal agent
who's also a competitive shooter and
just worked with him for a while to get
pretty proficient
and
so we finally see a caribou herd right
it's like
all right if they're they're going to
come through this valley they're going
to go over this saddle and if we can be
on the other side of the saddle we're
going to be in a
position that we want to be in and even
then i mean i got the rifle in my hand
i'm like um i really gonna do this you
know and
make it over the saddle and long story
short it works out how we think it
should so we had to crawl about you know
army crawl like 300 yards in they
crossed the saddle you just see these
antlers appear at the apex and it was
one of those moments where you're like
like i'm never gonna forget that like
you see the antlers first and it's like
oh my god and then they come over and um
so i end up shooting this caribou that
was old because that was one of the
things um
how we're hunting is that we wanted to
hunt the older species that
generally helps the health of the herd
whereas if you were to kill a younger
one it doesn't and the particular
caribou that i shot uh had a limp i mean
he was old it's like probably 10 12
years old which is like the end of life
for them
and
but even you know before i pull the
trigger i'm like oh man i don't know if
i'm gonna do this once i did it was like
there's no coming back from this like i
was a mess
a lot of regret
really you regretted it i don't remember
you saying that in the book i remember
you saying that you were a mess and
emotional yeah i regretted it initially
because you ended a life yes end of the
life and um
i sat with it for a while but my mind
shifted because
once you start to feel dressed the
animal
you know you cut it open you start to
take the meat off and all of a sudden
that meat that meat looks exactly like
the meat that i eat at home
and don't ever think twice about never
have i once felt an emotion just eating
meat from the grocery store right
so i realized that
it sort of made me more aware of the
fact that
life
for one thing to live on another thing
has to die right you get inserted in the
life cycle and it definitely changed my
view
about um
how i made me more conscious of it it's
not like all of a sudden i became a
vegan or anything like no that didn't
happen right but it made me think about
it more and you get pushback online from
people that think this is just super
barbaric i'll tell you what oddly enough
i've gotten a few messages and they're
from vegetarians and vegans who have
read the book and they say
you know i didn't think i was going to
like it but the way that you handled
that chapter like
a lot of respect man like i can it made
me think about
hunter hunting differently the way some
people are doing it
um which has been cool you know because
i did worry about that
but so this idea of you know after i
killed this caribou caribou that idea of
like oh for one thing to live another
has to die
well that applies to you it applies to
me right
and it got me thinking about my own
mortality
and to chase this idea down you know i
think part of the reason why
i didn't want to
kill the caribou is
how we generally view death in the
united states
which yes death is a very
uncomfortable thing right so we don't
want to be intimate with it at all you
know this goes from our food system how
meat just sort of like appears it's
really shiny there's not really a lot of
sense that it came from something living
down to our funeral system where after
someone passes away we make them look as
alive as possible for a viewing and then
they're put in the ground and then we
are told
you know don't think about take your
mind off it go do something take your
mind off it right
but this is different in
bhutan which is a country that is
by india and nepal
so in bhutan like death is very much
woven into
the country and the culture so people
are told to think about their death
every day
there are reminders of death everywhere
so there's these and what's the point to
make sure that you live
yeah yeah well um
it's the idea of remembering that you
were gonna die one day right so there's
these little clay things that are made
and they're everywhere they're made of
um
clay and ashes of the dead
and they're all over the country and
even the buddhist tradition country yeah
it's a buddhist country and they've
really leaned into this idea of
death and buddhism so the idea is that
and what's interesting before i get
there is that uh
bhutan is generally ranked as one of the
happiest countries on earth like they're
consistently in the top 20 rankings
but this is surprising because they're
one of the least developed nations on
earth there's not a single fast food
place in there there's not a stoplight
in the entire country whoa the entire
country how many people live there i
think it is about 300 000 total so it's
pretty small wow yeah but 300 000 people
and zero stop lights i mean i guess it
depends on the land mass that those
three hundred thousand are spread out
across but still yeah um do they have
cars they do have cars yeah um
so it's uh you look at their you know un
development ranking super low yet
they're super happy
so it's like what's going on here
because we tend to think like oh if we
can just get our country
high and high enough on this development
ranking we'll be a lot happier i mean
that's the ultimate goal of
of most things right of of business of
chasing chasing money and this type of
thing is like oh if i have this then i
can
do these things that make me happy and
to a certain extent that does work
but not always right
so
in bhutan i meet with this uh buddhist
llama
and
to get to him he lives in the shack like
this in the shadow of this monastery and
it's like this dirt cliffy road
we have to drive up there in this smart
car and my driver is like baja 500 in
this like smart car it's like
i'm like man i might have to replace
this guy's car by the time we're done
here
but i get uh i get to this guy's shack
and
i mean it is full on like
the western
gangly rider meets the guru scene i mean
he's like
you know sitting in the lotus looking at
this big buddha statue and i open this
drape and it's like incense in the room
and he just sees me and is like
welcome you know
and uh but we talk about death and like
what is thinking about death this idea
that they have in their country what
does it do for them and he basically
says that
when you realize
that you're going to die this is
inevitable you take this into your mind
yes it is uncomfortable
but it also
happens to
typically change people's behavior
because all of a sudden when you realize
that this thing is going to stop and in
the grand scheme of time it's gonna stop
really soon
all of a sudden you don't get caught up
in the little things that used to
you used to like really bother you and
get you all worked up right all of a
sudden you start to focus on that which
actually matters to you whatever that
might be
building a business with a greater
mission more time with family more time
with kids etc etc
and that changes your behavior in a way
that tends to make you happier and
they've done studies on this in the u.s
too which i think is interesting so it's
like yeah there's an element of
mysticism here but there's also some
statistics to back it up where they've
had people think about
death and studies and another group just
think about you know whatever the people
who thought about their death you would
think they would come out on the other
side being like that was terrible and
like yeah they're like it was you know
it was uncomfortable but like i'm
actually kind of happier now because i'm
kind of seeing things a little bit
differently they've done studies at
stanford on people who are dying and
like when they take into their mind that
they're gonna die it changes how they
experience the end of their life and how
others around them even perceive how
that person has experienced it and you
thought about what you'd be like if you
knew you were dying let's say in a week
or a month
i mean i do think about death every day
and i do think that it has moved
very specific
like uh procedural way like that you you
do it on purpose yes
usually at the end of sometimes in the
morning sometimes at the end of night as
i'm falling asleep usually as i'm
falling asleep do you just imagine the
dying process i just imagine dead i just
imagine that the ride is gonna end and
what does that mean
like when you
get that in your mind in a deep level
that can be
pretty terrifying
but again
what about it terrifies you
okay think of this
this is something that someone told me
um in sobriety he's and this was like an
aha moment for me this guy goes
you know i'm just not that damn
important
now that it never occurred to me up to
that point
and so i think we hear that and we're
like what does that mean
what was your great great grandfather's
name
um i actually don't know my great great
grandfather no idea great great great
no idea great great great great really
no idea
right
it's like
but why is that terrifying that's what i
wanted we get sucked into this idea that
like i don't think we fully comprehend
that like
this thing is gonna end and like what
does that mean what does that mean to
like not exist and when you realize like
no one's gonna remember you
eventually the human race is probably
going to end at some point right it has
to right yeah unless elon musk has a
great idea but even if he does i think
you talk about this in the book that
eventually even if it's just like the
heat death of the universe yes like
there is no escape on a long enough time
yeah there's no escape and so i think
that you know once you
for me at least and i think that
other people have said this to me too
done this like this is kind of
terrifying because you go like oh my god
what does that really mean
right because we don't ever like think
about that we just think that
oh yeah this thing's gonna last forever
and i can put stuff off
you know i'll do that when i retire i'll
do that xyz
is it a fear of not having done the one
ride you have well or is it a fear of
the pain of dying is it a fear of i
don't know what comes after this for me
it's um it's definitely not the pain
thing it's more just
the uncertainty i think humans
inherently don't like uncertainty back
to that idea that we like what we can
predict death is the
ultimate form of uncertainty
we just have no idea right
what goes beyond that we just know that
this thing
ends right here if you knew
guaranteed i'm not gonna tell you when
yeah but you knew guaranteed you die
peacefully in your sleep you go to bed
one night and you just never wake up
would you still fear death
yeah because it's the uncertainty i'm
not worried about the
you don't want to i mean and and here's
the thing is that my mind has really
shifted on this because of this
process you know
when i first started doing it it was
terrifying but now i just use it as a
tool where i go this thing's going to
end
are you using your time in a way like
it's impermanent so the the word that
they use in bhutan and in buddhism is
mitakba and it is impermanence and it's
the idea that everything
is impermanent in life and that's not
only a lesson for like this life this is
a lesson moment to moment
you know
like things yeah this too shall pass
enjoy things
uh as they are right now because they
could always get worse
and they could always get better too
right that's what i love about the
buddhist idea of this too shall pass is
it is both the warning that hey
you're not going to last forever you are
as impermanent as anything else
and
hey don't worry this feeling this
hardship this whatever this too shall
pass yeah nothing lasts not beauty not
pain not joy not suffering
i find that yeah that that is a really
um
this too shall pass is a very comforting
idea for me
i have
tremendous fear around the
a prolonged death of suffering
so i watched my cousin die
slowly
and that was
really discomforting for me
and it was super discomforting because
like i'm captain like be hardcore like
you push to the end like there's nothing
you can't face and like keep going if
you're going through hell keep going all
of that that resonates with me in a way
it it is
almost
like
orgasmic for me that idea of like we can
[__] push through anything
and so i so get off on that and then i
watched him gasping for air
and the only times he was at peace was
when he was asleep and i thought all of
a sudden i don't know what he's fighting
for yeah and when the end like
when there is a oh keep going and you
get to go home and you'll be fine there
was none of that this was just like
how many gulps of air can you fight for
and your only reward is that you get to
fight for another gulp of air there's no
more quality time with your family or
anything like that and that was really
i mean eye-opening i guess is the right
phrase but that was um
it was interesting to see that it didn't
diminish my sense of like i want to
fight for everything when there is a
potential wind to be had but it really
made me go
if i had euthanasia button that i could
press i would probably press it and sort
of post that realization then somebody
else in my life ended up dying of cancer
and both of them and when they died of
cancer they had the euthanasia tablet
like they had actually been given
if it gets to the point and you just
want to tap out and when he went to the
hospital he didn't know that that was
going to be the last time and so he
didn't even bring it with him
and i remember thinking man like i guess
it was pretty gnarly for him at the end
i wasn't there
and i said like why didn't he take it
and they were like
there was just
wasn't even a thought like it just
happened so quickly the decline went
from like all as well to like
you know
we're at the very end and i just
that to me i would be lying if i said
that process whether it's a day a week
or whatever where it's like your body is
shutting down and this is goodbye i find
that deeply unnerving
but the thought of just not waking up
one day does not cause me an ounce of
stress
that's interesting so the transition
freaks me out but the um
that this too shall pass this is all in
permanent
um
i don't know i don't struggle with that
maybe uh it's interesting i don't have
kids and some people see that as their
path to mortal immortality right and i
legitimately want to live forever like
if you had a button i could press that
was the exact opposite of euthanasia and
i could just live forever i would press
the [__] out of that button like a lot
of people would that i have literally
have i met more than five people that
would press it i don't think so
most people like no i don't want to live
forever interesting would you
no i don't think so yeah see what the
[__] i don't understand you i went from
like every word out of you yeah yeah
yeah
now you sound crazy to me why wouldn't
you want to live forever well
for what
if i live forever like what do i do with
my time i mean it's like
the same thing you're doing with your
time now yeah i guess you could do you
have an impulse now where you're like oh
god is this really worth it
no neither do i so i don't understand
why somebody wants
to make sure that this ride that they've
never once wanted to tap out of has an
end that's a good i mean maybe i'd be
like eh i guess maybe 200 years would be
good but that's also just an abstract
you're going to feel like you think
about think about the the um
caribou that you hunted right 10 years
12 years was a lot for it yes you've
already done that three times over yes
so for that thing it's like jesus 300
like come on that's ridiculous but to us
the frame of reference is such that it
just
why would you want the ride to end
that's a good question um
i think that
well would this theoretical thing be
available to everyone yes and then can
people just start having kids because
then we're going to have more kids and
then what happens to the let's just for
the thought experiment and i'm well
aware that there are realities to be
faced and i don't want people to think
i'm blind to that but i've done my part
because i don't have children
uh me too so we're in the same boat do
you ever plan to have kids probably not
okay so
let's just imagine that we're a
multi-planetary species and there's just
abundance for all and you know we found
ways to make meat out of cells and so we
don't animals don't even have to die for
us to live on which i know creates a
problem within the greater context of
this conversation but just for this
question let's say none of that is a
concern anybody that wants it can have
it
now the question is only do you want it
so the world is perfect
no every every sort of emotional
struggle is real it's going to be ups
and downs there's no utopias it's just
you aren't going to run into a too many
people problem okay
i don't know maybe i would if everyone
around what if everyone around would
yeah
what would aging look like though uh
let's say that you sort of stall out at
like 60. so you're still highly
functional if you've taken care of
yourself you've got plenty of you know
pep get up and go you're not 20 but so
you're permanent like 60. basically
let's say all of time
i'm gonna really have to use the rogaine
then i'd like to keep this hair
if rogaine is available then maybe let's
say that it is yeah your hair is still
looking on point forever good uh maybe i
would
i don't know
i think as things are now if you were
like do you want to live forever right
now
probably not
really what is it about the right now
that trips you up well i mean
because if you say um
the only way that i mean so what am i
going to live on for forever like
there's all these there's all these
you're smart dude i don't buy that so as
much as you said it's [__] that i
don't want to go out or i couldn't go
out into the woods or whatever's too
scary i'm going to say you would find
something what well right you have to
introduce all these artifices that make
it worthwhile does the human does my
human body does my human body just like
stop aging at this point like am i just
forever we have reached health escape
velocity so for every year that you live
we add a year to your lifespan through
better
surgeries growing organs that kind of
thing
and this is only available to me
well so it gets more interesting if it's
available to you this is what i was
going to ask so let's say it's available
to everybody
but some of the people in your life
choose to tap out so now they could have
lived forever and so all the emotional
distress if you're unable to convince
them that life is worth living and so
now oh god watching somebody make that
choice is [__] heartbreaking it's
tantamount to suicide i mean it's
literally suicide in a world where
everybody looks forever so now you've
got let's say 50 of the people that you
know and love you never know they just
they there is some mechanism in half of
the world's brains where they just can't
make it make sense and so they commit
suicide and you have to live in that
world so the the they're still lost
they're still heartache over enough time
it's like all the people in your life
have turned over
this is a good question
i think i would have to think of
other ways
yeah that's a good question i don't know
i don't know there's so many thought
jumps i have to make to be able to make
this work and i think that's the trouble
that i have with it right and you're
talking logistically like the realities
of this yes because i think where you
were going is that getting back into the
death cycle of but for me to accept the
end of my life i free up space for
somebody else and that you feel good
about being a part of that cycle
i feel like i can accept it i feel like
by accepting it rather than
ignoring it which i think is what can
happen naturally right we want to kind
of just like go on to the next thing
not pay attention to the present i think
it forces me to be more present and use
the time that i have a lot better
so for example back to that idea of
autopilot
if i'll all of a sudden i have like 500
years i'm just like i'll do that
whenever you know have you read the book
einstein's dreams is that alan lightman
i think it is
i think i read it i never would have
remembered but i'm almost certain that
you're correct yeah i think a while ago
check it out again there's in that
because they're all little short stories
about time there's one of them where in
the world everybody lives forever okay
and there's two kinds of people type one
never do anything because there's always
time to do it tomorrow yeah and type two
do everything right now because they can
do everything they've ever wanted to do
yeah interesting and so i think people
fall into one of those two camps
i would probably
i'd probably do everything
what you just said made me think you
would fall into the camp of do nothing
because i've got 500 years so
well i'm making generalities about
people yeah i don't know
this one is one where
there's so many things that need to be
okay well this is a scenario this is the
scenario this is the scenario
i'd like to see this in a full contract
that is amazing i need to read the fine
print on this one yeah i'd like to read
the fine print i don't want to get
caught up in some you know deal like
with a cable provider where if i cancel
there's no way out even death
yeah and i'd rather just be dead than
have to renegotiate my life contract
it's that is
amazing
it's interesting so this yeah i don't
know this is the one question to me
where i assumed everybody felt the same
as i did and then you start talking to
people and you realize oh my god like
i'm actually in the minority how's that
possible just seems so strange to me i
think that if all of a sudden all the
the scenario you just set up were to
occur
i think that a lot of people would
actually just live forever
i think i could probably see myself
being because it's like well if everyone
else is doing it i think they probably
would as a default but i think there
would be a lot of emotional like
machinations about
like oh but my life doesn't have meaning
because there's no end it it's it is
interesting to me the suffering that
people create for themselves somebody i
think on my team it may have actually
been somebody just in my community
created this meme
uh which i am super i love that they put
me in it and it's from scooby doo they
put my head on uh i guess it would have
been
who's the main sailor looking guy
whoever that guy is
i forget
not shaggy the other dude and they put
my head on it and it's oh yeah it goes
like um they're about to unmask him and
it's like who's the cause of all of my
problems and you unmask him and it's you
again yeah and uh it's like damn
and the amount of problems that people
create for themselves like the fact that
people go through their normal life and
they do it for i mean 80 to 100 years
pretty magically delicious long period
of time
never get weird about that but suddenly
when you change their frame of reference
it oh well then that would destroy all
the meaning and what would i do with my
time and all the same [__] thing
you're doing now like whatever the
meaning is you have now okay so i have a
question because in this scenario i mean
the world has obviously improved if we
have all this
medicine all this technology
where do we get meaning because then
there's a problem with
what was that well tell me there's a
problem with
how where do you get meeting from the
same place you get it now people think
that meaning is handed to you it's not
meaning is a decision people make it the
problem is most people their parents
tell them what is meaningful or buddhism
tells them what's meaningful or religion
tells them what's meaningful and they
mistake that for objective truth not
realizing hey you're just embedded in a
cultural context yes so now i'm just
saying recognize that it's a cultural
context and was still able to give you
this thing that you said ooh this thing
has meaning i'm gonna grab onto it now
just
be in on the trick so to me just like
you will send yourself out into these
absurdly dangerous scenarios even though
you could live in the comfort of your
known world you're saying but i get the
way the brain works forget the mind for
a second i get the way the brain works
and i need to be out here moving doing
all this hard [__] you bought into what
they were telling you that you should
probably do a little bit of hunting
you'll get this insight and so you did
it and there was the insight i'm just
saying things like religion work even
when you know it's a trick of evolution
even when you know that there is
essentially
a god neuron right that there is this
thing in your brain that allows you to
feel this transcendent nature yeah so if
people can get meaning from dropping
acid or psilocybin or whatever i'm
telling you like you just have to get a
hold of this is a mechanism it's a
process right i'm obsessed with getting
people to understand desire is a process
love is a process meaning is a process
like for instance there was almost a
decade of my life where if you had woken
me up in the middle of the night punched
me in the head so i was dazed and
confused and you said what is the
mission in your life i would have said
to end metabolic disease but i don't
even think about that
not that i don't think about it now but
it is way deep prioritized now what i'm
completely focused on i've given my life
to i'm betting my fortune on everything
is that i can make sure that nobody
makes makes it to the age of 15 without
encountering a growth mindset
and i literally it was a conscious
decision i'm going to now walk the
process of building that in such that i
believe in it so much i get a
neurochemical response to it when i tell
people that's what i'm about but of
course in the beginning i didn't get a
neurochemical response it was all just
an intellectual exercise yeah but it
works like if you know the process to
reinforce an idea in your mind it will
actually take
neurophysiological
hold of you and you will get a very
strong visceral emotional response but
only if you go through that process
yeah
i could see that i could see i mean we
would have to have
everything would have to be upended
right education
everything i think we should up end
education yes not to completely derail
this conversation
yeah i mean everything would have to
that's why again the fine print yeah
yeah it's interesting yeah um
oh man there was some other element to
that that i really wanted to go into
that i'm blanking on now so let's go
back to something that is
um
been on my mind since we brought it up
so this idea of rituals
and you're being torn away from most of
the time you said the mother i'd be
curious to know if it's all the time the
mother and you were just leaving
yourself a little bit of wiggle room or
if you actually know of some
cultures where it really was the father
i think it's
i can't remember off the top of my head
i think that mostly like in the campbell
really talks about the mother right but
in um
in right to passage
then ganep i think there's a little bit
of father as well but i can't remember
the exact specifics on that so
yeah that's something for me i would
really like to
do some more research into i don't know
if you've read nelson mandela's long
walk to freedom okay but holy hell that
was so interesting because he's a modern
person yeah who lived a tribal life
and was if memory serves correctly they
do this ritualistic where the men come
in take you physically away from the
women so away from your mother
and i forget what sort of weird hard
thing they had to do because i think
there were two parts of it but the part
that i remember extraordinarily well
they strip you down bucket ass naked
in front of the entire tribe they sit
you down spread eagle and a guy with a
really sharp [__] rock grabs a hold
of your foreskin and cuts it off yeah
and no anesthetic you just [__] get
the slice yeah and then you have to yell
the warrior's statement whatever it is
and there's whatever four or five of
these 14 year old boys lined up and they
all get the slice and they all have to
yell and he had like this moment of
shame because it hurt so bad that he
hesitated before he yelled the thing and
he was like oh [__] like you know i had
one chance and you know and i didn't
yell it and
i just thought oh my god like i really
grew up pampered because i so admire him
and the fact that he 27 years in prison
yeah like that's pretty extraordinary
and to not come out and be the most
bitter human on the face of planet earth
which i fear would have been my response
and i just thought god is there really
something to like just that
where a culture says from this moment to
the next
you're moving into a different
place and a different phase you are a
different person
then it'd be really interesting to
because i know virtually nothing about
rites of passage for women
there
well one thing that came up in my mind
as we were talking is i think that the
the only place that has put um
rights of passage at scale more
traditional rights of passage at scale
for people is the military
so
think about um
think about hell week
what is that or boot camp
right you come in
you're like not that not that tough
you're a little soft not great at
following directions we're going to put
you through a week of hell with all
these tests and trials and you may not
make it through we might drop you but if
you make it out the other side you're a
new person and how do we signify that we
give you a green beret we give you the
ranger tab we have a
symbol that shows that you are a new
person
so i think you know in some cultures uh
and countries they make military service
um you have to be in the military for a
year you know when you're 18 18 to 19
everyone joins the military for one year
and
i think that is there's something
interesting about that not necessarily
advocating for it but i wonder if there
is something there
that leaves younger people a little
better off than i think you advocate for
it
now just the logistics of this damn
country
you've got like a real thing with the
fine print respect oh yeah i overthink
everything um
i mean you could do it if everyone jump
on board and i think it'd probably be
good for american
kids to be honest i mean in my you know
having dealt with
i say dealt with like it's a burden i
really like my job as a professor but
you know increasingly i think kids are
more to use your language at the first
of the
this kind of soft
and i think there's a lot of reasons for
this and i think that the reasons are
increasing one it's that this lack of
challenge in life
to its
this digital
sphere that they live in and really put
so much weight on
right
like for example i teach a health
journalism class i usually have 30 kids
in it and their very last stories they
have to write about
they have to do this long feature about
like a any anything just has to be kind
of related to health
probably about a half of every
half of the women in the class and maybe
like a third of the men
they're all writing about the
the mental health impacts of social
media like they could come up with any
idea in health ever right and this is
what they're all coming up with because
they're all affected by it and they see
it and they're all none of them are
saying
man this has made me feel so great about
myself i can't believe this
they're all saying like
this isn't good for me
comparison is the thief of joy yes
totally it's crazy i've been successful
in my life but even i can get [__] up
by going on instagram being like yo
he's got better abs than i have or you
know what i mean whatever like you just
so fast go
man i'm i'm popping off in this one area
of my life but i'm ultra [__] in 999
other areas and so
it's so easy to get
emotionally befuddled by yes going on
and seeing and of course it's
everybody's highlight reel and all of
that stuff
so yeah it is uh that's a really
interesting thing back to problem creep
we don't focus on yeah [__] we focus on
the one thing right and that eats away
at our brain i'll tell you a story
that's i don't know if it's related you
can tell me after
so when i
have to take all those planes to get up
there right
so when i'm on these like whatever they
are 747s from vegas to seattle seattle
to anchorage
i hate flying like i just i hate flying
right it's like the seats are too small
um the coffee on the plane is is garbage
it's total garbage and the
you know the screen in front of you it's
got movies they're like the shittiest
movies ever right they're like c rate
movies they're terrible
um it's usually way too hot on the plane
uh if you want to go to the bathroom
like you're like this as you go you know
it's just terrible
so i go up there and i spend a month in
the arctic and
i'm freezing cold the entire time
i never have enough food because we pack
in like 2 000 calories a day and we're
burning like four to six maybe uh
everything i do takes effort even going
to the bathroom i gotta like walk out
and then you know hold a squat for a
while and also keeping bring the gun
because grizzly bears
um
crazy weather crazy weather everything
is hard
so when we get back
and i'm on that plane back to vegas
it was
heaven
it was heaven
i hadn't sat in a soft chair for a month
right
i had been bored out of my ever-loving
mind for a month i've gotten some
benefits from that but still a month
away from
stimulation
is a long time
and you know that
c-rate movie
damn that was a really that was a really
good movie when i had to go to the
bathroom
like oh i didn't have to have a gun with
me right
when i wanted water to wash my hands
i hit this button and this hot water hot
water came out and when that hot water
hit my hands it was like oh
my god this is unbelievable just this
[__] eating grin when i wanted food
just bing
hey could i have like 19 more bags of
pretzels man
you know
coffee was great
so the point i'm trying to make is this
it's like we don't realize how freaking
amazing daily life is like it is
unbelievable just all this [__] that we
take for granted in our life every
single day
we become unsatisfied with it we look
for the problems
like ah this sucks this sucks
when in
reality it's amazing to be alive today
like holy [__]
hot water coming out of a faucet at 30
000 feet in this like tube of metal
that's gonna take me
three thousand miles in like
four hours
why do i have pro like why do i have
problems in my life everything is
freaking perfect right now like it
really is and i'm not saying that like
we don't have larger societal problems
that are worth discussing
right but the reality is is the average
person
is
very very few people are going hungry
in the united states now it's like it's
one of those where i'm like we have so
much food people are overweight and
we're like yeah but
food insecurity like okay show me all
those people who died of famine in the
u.s like
they're just not there you know and i
realize that's controversial maybe it's
insensitive but those people are just
not there there's a lot of ways to get
food today
and our problem is that we have too much
food rather than too little food on a
grand scale i don't have to put an
effort to go get my water
to get hot water to do all these things
my job i don't have to go toil in a
field i don't have to run down my food i
don't have to do all these things that
in the past were very hard and
challenging like it is amazing to be
alive today and i think we just missed
that
and
so for me coming back
from alaska when i all of a sudden the
fact that
you can just boil water on a stove and
you have access to like hot water and
food like
anything you want
you become a lot more grateful for all
of that stuff
and when you become grateful for
everything you have in your life
like i would argue even people who are
below the poverty level in the us now
they really have it good i mean most
people how you look at data most people
who are below the poverty level have air
conditioning they have cars
a lot of them have assets in different
forms
access to food even that you look at
we are the 99 for the world you know
even our poorest people are
among the top one percenters you know
in a grand scheme of things in the world
and so i think when we miss that we miss
out on an opportunity to be grateful for
stuff that just i mean that makes your
life a lot better yeah i totally agree
with that and my thing is you know if
you want to make change which is amazing
making it from a place of recognizing
sort of what we have and how far we've
come and that of course we can always
eke out more gains and make things
better but getting people to understand
that you're going to see what you look
for and if you see all the problems
you're going to you're going to or if
you look for all the problems you're
going to see all the problems but if you
look for the things that are joyful and
good and wonderful then you're going to
see that and that frame of reference
will color how you approach change and
if you're looking for ways to elevate
humanity and help people and you really
want good things and you know you're
looking at just how incredible what
we've created is then you'll approach
the problem solving from one direction
if you're only looking at all the things
that have gone wrong and all the slides
and all that
then you're just coming at it from a
different place yeah um so you know i
don't i know you don't intend any of
your words to be misconstrued as they're
of course is human suffering and
that the vast majority of human
suffering though especially in a modern
context is psychological and helping
people through
that of knowing how you could be in way
worse conditions and thrive emotionally
you know people can be in the conditions
that they're in now and thrive
emotionally it's not easy i'm well aware
of that but once we identify the real
problem to solve then we can actually
make progress so going back to bhutan
it's like
they don't have it better than people
below the poverty line here in america
by the sort of objective standards of
assets and things that they own and all
of that stuff it is really a question of
they've done
work at a cultural level that's allowed
people to thrive emotionally and when we
wrap our heads around that that's
probably where we have to focus i think
we might actually start making more
progress yeah so yeah i think so too 100
michael
thank you so much for coming on dude
your book was amazing i think it's
really important right now i thoroughly
enjoyed this conversation where can
people find you
follow your crazy adventures ideas all
that good stuff yeah i got a website
eastermichael.com i'm on instagram
michael underscore easter and then the
book is the comfort crisis it's
available
you know wherever books are sold started
it was super fun man like chatting thank
you so much fun guys check this guy out
man i think his ideas are utterly
transformational you won't regret a
second of it and speaking of things you
won't regret if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
[Music]
you